http://www.ctio.noao.edu/noao/content/dark-energy-camera-decam

Updated DES throughput curves with full-size filters
----------------------------------------------------

Please note the following:


(1)  The filter transmissions are now those measured (area-weighted) 
     for the full-size (620-mm) filters. 
     
(2)  The CCD QE curve has been multiplied by 0.88 to make 
     the QE curve peak at about 0.9.  The peak was > 1 before 
     as it was a relative QE curve.
     
(3)  For the primary mirror, we are still using the CFHT primary mirror
     file.  Rich Kron had supplied Tim Abbott's document with Blanco primary 
     reflectivity numbers for May 2010.  These latest Blanco numbers are 
     very similar to the values in the CFHT file where they overlap, but 
     the CFHT data are much better sampled in wavelength and so we are
     keeping them for the throughput files.

(4)  For the corrector we are keeping the CFHT MegaPrime numbers as a
     placeholder, as curves for the DECam correctors including the
     anti-reflection coatings are not yet available.  Darren DePoy
     indicated that in grizy the corrector transmission should be >0.82
     (0.93 for the uncoated C1 lens, and >0.97 for each of the other 4
     coated lenses). The CFHT MegaPrime numbers are close to this, 
     so this file is not updated for now.

(5)  Atmospheric extinction, at an airmass (~sec-Z) of 1.30 and an altitude 
     of 2200 metres above mean sea level, is included using the atmospheric 
     extinction function for Palomar mountain.

(6)  In some filters, there is evidence of out-of-passband signal, especially 
     for Lambda < 4500A. This effect is however not real, and is a light-leak 
     artefact of the filter manufacturer's test-bed measurement techniques.


Many thanks to Huan Lin and Brenna Flaugher for providing data files and 
throughput models for the optics and atmospherics. 

David James
djj@ctio.noao.edu
CTIO
20 March 2012

Eric Bellm, July 19 2012:

The filter curves in these files include light leaks due to the testing setup,
per the DES-Filter-curves.xlsx from Brenna Flaugher:
"Raw data - out of band performance is not correct because the system to measure the large filter has light leaks"
These are corrected with the witness samples:
"Raw data for in band performance, witness sample data used for out of band performance"

